# TestCiphers
Cryptography is an ancient study of secret writing. There is a wealth of literature in this field. An extremely readable book on this subject is The Code Book by Simon Singh. This is a field of study that is of particular relevance in Computer Science. Given the widespread use of computers, one of the things people are interested in is making transactions over the internet more secure.

There are two classes of ciphers - substitution ciphers and transposition ciphers. The substitution ciphers replace individual characters in a string. Transposition ciphers on the other hand scramble the characters in the string. We will look at two representative ciphers in both the classes. The transposition cipher that you will implement is called Rail Fence Cipher. For the subsitution cipher we have chosen the Vigenere Cipher.

Rail Fence Cipher: The rail fence cipher is also known as the zigzag cipher and is a form of a transposition cipher that jumbles up the order of the letters. The rail fence cipher works by writing your plain-text downwards and diagonally on successive rows. The number of rows is given by a key. Once you reach the bottom row, you traverse upwards and diagonally. After you reach the top row, the direction is changed again, leading to a zigzag manner in which the plain-text is written. After the plain-text is written in this form, the rows are combined to create the cipher-text.
To decrypt a given cipher text, you would need to reconstruct the list. First construct a 2D list with number of rows equal to the given key and number of columns equal to the length of the cipher text. Next, traverse the 2D list in the same diagonal manner as encoding and mark the cells in this 2D list that should contain a character. Then, traverse the list row by row and fill in the characters of your ciphertext. Lastly, read the matrix in the diagonal fashion to uncover your plain-text.

In the transposition cipher you are merely scrambling all the characters in the plain text. In your assignment keep all the characters of the plain text - lower case letters, upper case letters, digits, punctuation marks and spaces. Your cipher text will have all the characters (unchanged) from the plain text.

Vigenere Cipher: Substitution ciphers can be broken by frequency analysis. To make the cipher more secure you can use two or more letters to encrypt. The Vigenere cipher uses a pass phrase to encrypt and decrypt.
